# DnDTools
Have you ever wanted to have monsters for encounters but wanted something a bit more interesting than the cookie cutter creatures in the monster manual? How about a random thief encounter who happened to have a randomly generated dex modifier of -5. What about bandit archers with a +5 mod to dex who are deadly to your level 3 characters? How about simpleminded Mind Flayers or overachieving ruffians? All of these are rarely utilized characters, as they fail to leverage the specific abilities and attributes provided by a specific template; however, I think they would make random encounters much more interesting. This is where the original idea for my tools have come in. I am currently working on building the initial data structures into a well-formatted JSON file for all the monster manual (and eventually player manual) data, but my long term goal is to have full on character creation implemented with TEX rendered sheets that can be printed out and given to players, combat calculations for the DM, and random encounters with named NPCs to allow for true (pseudo) random encounters for the players to experience. This way, the players are encouraged to think on their feet when they accidentally encoutner an aboleth in the town swimming pool, or a Wyvern nest in the town's watchtower. I've always wanted the worlds to feel truly alive, and I don't think that can really happen without a tangible element of chaos mucking things up every once and a while ;).

## Current Work
Stucturing relevant monster manual and player manual information into the appropriate JSON files, and testing what should produce a properly formatted Tex document for easy rendering.

## Future Work
Implementing battle calculations, auto initiative for monsters, random stat generation and a category-based name generator. This may take a while.
